[Music]
okay so Apple had a nice short little 30
minute event today announcing just a
bunch of new iPad stuff now this was the
longest they've ever gone without
updating anything iPad related so they
had some cooking to do but the thing is
and I feel like we've been saying this
for years it kind of doesn't matter how
powerful they make the iPad it's still
an iPad right it's still iPad OS and we
we've seen gigantic improvements in the
M series chips and these iPads are like
the most powerful chips ever on paper
but there's still iPads so the last
thing we need after all this time is
just another spec bumped iPad right well
let me introduce you to the newest iPads
so first up there's a new iPad Air which
follows the script of bringing a few
things down from the previous iPad pros
and of course you know making it
available for this lower price so it
graduates from the M1 to the M2 Chip
inside it starts up at1 28 gigs of
storage now and it moves the webcam to
the landscape bezel where it belongs it
gets faster Wi-Fi and for the first time
there is a larger one now so they're
calling it The 11-in and the 13in iPad
Air I had to clarify just because the
last one was 10.9 in so are they just
simplifying the name like is it actually
bigger and turns out yeah there is just
a little bit more screen here great but
other than that it's pretty predictable
it's a spec bump like this is sticking
to the script here I think I think I
could hand you the newest iPad right now
and you couldn't really tell the new Air
from the old Air just looking at it
other than if you're holding the bigger
one or if you recognized the super
exciting new colors I mean hopefully you
could hear my sarcasm through the screen
but there's blue purple Starlight and
space gray so it's $5.99 for the small
one and $7.99 for the bigger one but
then we also got a more significant
update to the iPad pros this is where
they push the limits of the iPad this is
where they want to show their absolute
best stuff the best possible tablets and
man if we just ignore the software for a
second these new iPads are ridiculous so
first of all they start off by revealing
that these new iPads the 11-in and the
13in are the new thinnest Apple devices
ever made ever that's that's including
phones that's including like old iPods
and everything the 11in is 5.3 mm thin
and the
13in is 5.1 mm thin so that's literally
thinner than the iPod Nano ever was it's
nuts it just it looks ridiculous it's
crazy to hold it's also lighter as you
might imagine it just kind of feels like
this impossible sheet of metal in your
hand I don't know if anyone ever looked
at an iPad Pro and asked for it to be
thinner but that's what they went and
did what could uh what what could
possibly go wrong fun fact this also now
means that the iPad Air is heavier than
the iPad Pro just to make sure we keep a
mess of an iPad lineup going but the new
Pro also gets a new chip and a new
screen so Apple took this event to
introduce us to the next generation of
Apple silicon with the M4 chip and this
iPad is the only thing that it's in
right now it's just the iPad with M4 so
that gives it stop me if it sounds
familiar even more ridiculous amounts of
power in such a tiny physical and
thermal envelope especially since we
came from M2 so it's a more power
efficient 3 nmet chip the CPU core is
net out to like 50% faster than M2 the
GPU is up to four times faster and
they're saying that they can do the same
performance output as M2 with half the
power so it's super efficient there's an
improved neural engine there's better
cooling now again I don't know who was
asking for a thinner iPad but there's
kind of no denying that it's at least
just physically impressive to look at
and this is the type of thing this is
the form factor that is specifically
enabled by the M4 chip apple is quoting
basically the same battery life as the
last iPad Pro and I kind of I have to
assume that there's significantly less
physical battery in the thing CU it's so
much thinner so that just basically
means Apple's going hey we think that
that was enough battery life in the last
gen so we're just going to match that
and that means we can go way thinner
with less battery because the new chip
is more efficient so then the new
display this is another thing that is
actually kind of enabled also by the M4
chip sometimes it seems like they're
just saying that but this is also true
so these are OLED iPads now both sizes
it's the exact same set of features
across both iPads which kind of makes
the $300 price difference between them a
little bit tougher but yeah oleds on
both the new iPad pros and OLED is
awesome right we already knew this it's
we've had OLED phones forever the pitch
black blacks the individually lit pixels
the super awesome Vibrance like all of
the OLED stuff is great and we were
excited to finally see it in a
relatively gigantic display that is an
iPad but making a huge OLED that's also
incredibly bright was a challenge that
required just a little bit of extra
engineering a little extra Ingenuity so
they put together something that they're
calling a tandem OLED display which
honestly to me I think this is maybe the
most interesting part of the whole
tablet event today so you can basically
think of it as two different OLED
displays stacked on top of each other
and then the new display driver on M4
can address both layers simultaneously
so that's what's allowing them to get
really high local brightness and that's
the spec now that's a th000 nits of peak
full screen brightness and 1,600 nits of
peak HDR brightness on an OLED on an
iPad size screen and in person it it
looks well it looks like a really bright
OLED it looks super colorful really
bright Inky blacks you know in this
Hands-On area that I got to spend like
30 minutes in it's not going to look its
best and there's crazy lighting
everywhere but I will be getting my
hands on it to review and I I intend to
dive in and find out if there are any
downsides but it looks pretty great here
and then also weirdly they announced a
nanotexture m matte version of the iPad
Pro so you know how there's a a matte
Pro display xdr I would be I would be
very careful about ordering this
particular option based on what I've
seen like I can see here that it is
definitely better at dealing with
Reflections than a normal display that's
awesome but just like the desktop
version that is at the expense of a
little bit of sharpness and contrast you
know the blacks don't look nearly as
black to me even at 0 off axis and I
also have to wonder about durability
because the pro display xdr is very
picky about which microfiber cloth you
use and you can literally ruin it if you
use the wrong one and with this iPad you
know I can feel the difference between
the soft touch texture of the Nano
texture and the glossy bezels and I just
have a feeling that you're only going to
be able to use or rely on the microfiber
that comes in the box with this thing
and not only does it cost an extra $100
to get the nanotexture it's also only
available on the one terab and 2 terb
highest end models so I think they know
that like people shouldn't just walk in
the store and just get it cuz it's on
the base one so yeah just be careful
with that one but you know what probably
made the most headlines out of all the
stuff announced today is the spec bumped
apple pencil there's now a new Apple
pencil Pro and it looks exactly the same
as the previous apple pencil but with
this new text on the back that says
pencil Pro on it now unfortunately
that's still not the Eraser uh but yeah
this new apple pencil pro has a haptic
motor inside so it supports find mine
now there's also a new squeeze sensor in
in the barrel for activating Tools in
different apps that will support it and
a new gyroscope actually makes it
rotation sensitive and I was trying this
it's surprisingly precise like really
really good so if you're an artist not
like me you maybe you're doing a barel
roll with certain drawing apps or
calligraphy applications for the $129
that it costs to get one of these things
but another incredibly inconvenient note
this new Pro pencil is only compatible
with the newest recently announced iPad
Pro or iPad Air because when they moved
that webcam to the long side that's also
where a lot of the magnets for lining up
and charging the pencil were so they had
to redesign the magnets up there and
that's now a different array so it's
only compatible with the newest
iPads why didn't they just move it to
the other side for charging I don't know
maybe that makes too much sense now
there's also a new magic keyboard as
well still ungodly expensive but if you
get the new one it's also it's lighter
than the previous gen the trackpad is
bigger and there's a whole function row
at the top now which actually that's
that is super useful and the pass
through charging is even faster
apparently it's 60 watts through the
pins in the back but all that being said
at the end of the day guess what we just
got another set of spec bumped iPads
they are metal rectangles with
incredible power and efficiency in our
hands that are just still iPads and I
don't know how many more times I can say
this but like taking advantage of all
this power is nearly impossible there
are a tiny sliver of apps that actually
make it feel like worth upgrading
there's almost nothing these iPads can
do that my M1 iPad Pro can't do and this
isn't even to downplay the hardware cuz
the hardware is actually amazing that's
that's where the difference comes from
like it's got this super bright high
resolution OLED displays with pitch
black blacks this M4 chip with
ridiculous power and efficiency new CPU
new GPU better neural engine like I've
never wanted an iPad to be thinner but
that line about them wanting the iPad to
feel like a magic sheet of glass really
resonated with this model in particular
even if you do feel like you could snap
it in half the whole time it's just the
awkwardness of this one mainly comes
from timing because I think we all know
well it's already been announced WWDC
their worldwide developer conference is
right around the corner and we all know
and expect them to update all the
software across all their stuff a new
iOS and new iPad OS so I guess iPad OS
and whatever Apple's going to decide to
do with that is around the corner so
we've got these new iPads shipping next
week but all the new software that could
be awesome well that's this summer and
this feels like it could be one of the
biggest updates yet to these iPads you
know it's Apple showing their hand at
how many more AI features they want to
build in and how many more features
people want to add that lets this be
their primary computer maybe more Siri
improvements all of this stuff so in
this awkward meantime here we have these
really really impressive spec bumped
iPad Pros the most powerful iPads of all
time the thinnest Apple devices
literally ever made but the list of
things it can do is the same as my
3-year-old M1 just saying what a time to
be alive speaking of announcements
though Ridge and I have finally launched
our first product together so it starts
with the ridge wallet you know the
minimal highquality industrial wallet
the more modern way to carry cash and
cards well you might know I joined Ridge
as the chief creative partner earlier
this year and we're finally releasing
our first MKBHD gear together so one of
the first things we wanted to do is just
make MKBHD versions of some of the
existing Stuff felt too obvious so
that's exactly what we're doing so I
love carbon fiber and matte black I
don't know if you knew that about me
already but those were my base
Inspirations for these two wallets so
the MKBHD carbon fiber 3K this is just a
bunch of lightweight Ultra durable
carbon fiber with the logo and then the
map black everything wallet this is just
aluminum but it's got this black oil
filled engravement print which is so
sick and then these wallets also come
with a debossed MKBHD money clip or uh
you can do cash strap you can also
attach these or detach them you could
also do an attachment for an air tag so
just to make sure you don't lose it or
you can do a like a find my card which
I've done as well but yeah I just I
carry this in my wallet all the time and
I definitely won't lose it and then of
course if you don't like my designs
that's fine Ridge has like 50 plus other
designs in their catalog they've got NFL
licensed team stuff if you want to rock
your team the store is endless and if
you even think it could be time to
upgrade it's a great time to just try
because if you don't love it after 99
days you can literally send it right
back no questions asked pretty sick and
I'll let you in on a little secret it's
30% off the new gear right now but also
any style if you order a wallet and a
keyh holder at the same time so just the
two together boom 30% off and also 10%
off whatever you want at ridge.com
MKBHD you're welcome uh yeah I'm excited
to be launching this stuff and also a
bunch more coming up later this year I
won't say too much about it but you can
sign up at the same link if you want to
get product updates I've told them just
to only email you about that if you sign
up but yeah let me know what you think
of these new iPads in general I mean
it's kind of an awkward waiting period
until we get all the new iOS 18 stuff
but let me know what you think new thin
thinner than ever iPads thanks for
watching catch you guys in the next one
peace